Compiling RDacity

This is an overview of compiling the Audacity For Rivendell software - in Windows Visual Studio

Note: Linux User - see Linux Notes in compile_radacity_linux.txt!

I suggest creating a directory to put the external libraries,
I called mine Projects. You will need three subdirectories, 1 for each library.

  1)  Download mysql library.  I used mysql_4.1.21-win32.

  2)  Download and compile LibCurl.

  3)  Download and compile Rivendel-C-API library.
 
  (Take note of where all of these libraries are built)

  4)  Following the instructions in Compile_audacity - build WxWidgets, and
      do the environment things and configurations listed there. Dont attempt
      to build Audacity yet...
  5)  Click the rdacity Visual Studio Solution.  You should not need to
      add any of the source steps below since I already added them, but just
      in case you need to add the new sources to the Project. Do this with the     
	following steps:

      a) In Solution Explorer - choose the src directory.
      b) Right Click src -  Add Existing Item
      c) Browse to the RDacity directory/src. Choose the following files
         to add (you can ctrl-click to add them at once):
            	MyProgressThread.h
		MyProgressThread.cpp
		RivendellBrowseDialog.h
		RivendellBrowseDialog.cpp
		RivendellDialog.h
		RivendellDialog.cpp
		RivendellConfig.h
		RivendellConfig.cpp

  6)  Add the Include Directories - you probably will have to change the ones I
	   entered to match where your directories are located:
	a) Click Project
	b) Click Audacity Properties
	c) Click Configuration Properties
	d) Click C/C++  General
	e) Click Additional Include Directories
	f) Click the drop down to display entries.
	g) Click Edit and enter direcotorys for riv-c-api and mysql includes. Mine were:
              c:\mysql-4.1.21-win32\include
              c:\Project\riv-c-api\riv-c-api
	h) Click Ok.
  7)  Add The Library Directories - you probably will have to change the ones I
      entered to match where your directories are located:
  	a) Click Project
	b) Click Audacity Properties
	c) Click Configuration Properties
        d) Click Linker General
	e) Click Additional Library Directories
	f) Click the drop down to display entries.
	g) Click Edit and enter library directories for riv-c-api, curl and mysql.
           Mine were:
     	c:\Project\curl-7.46.0\builds\libcurl-vc12-x86-release-dll-ipv6-sspi-winssl\lib
	c:\Project\riv-c-api\riv-c-api\Release
	c:\mysql-4.1.21-win32\lib\opt

  8)  The RivendellDialog.cpp file in the src directory needs to be edited
      to handle the host station information. (line 635 approximately).
      We hard-coded to be "xxxhost" - which is the station name in
      the Mysql DB Table RDLIBRARY to use to get Default Sample Rate,
      Default Format, and Default Channels.  You will need to change this
      to a Station in YOUR RDLIBRARY table. It is also set in the rd.ini file
      and the code can use that value - by default (that code is commented out.
      This code tries to be OS Compatible, so take a hard look at this.
      
  9)  The export process we wrote is hard coded to 16Bit PCM.  See 
      src/Export/export.cpp for specific method details. 

  10) Click Build to build the software.
      Select the configuration that you wish to build:
      * "Release" for Unicode-based, general use 
      * "Debug" for a Unicode-based, slower, debuggable 
         executable

      You can select the configuration from the Solution 
      Configurations pull-down menu, or select it from the "Build" 
      menu > "Configuration Manager..." dialog box.

      Build Audacity by giving the "Build" menu > "Rebuild Solution" 
      command.

  11) Once you have a clean Build - which I am sure you will ;)...
      you will need to make sure of a couple of other things before it will run.
   	a)  The Executable Directory (i.e. Debug or Release) needs to have a Portable Settings Directory.
            An example of the Release directory is included - but you will need to edit
            the rd.ini file and put the specific values for your machine/Database to run it
            from there. The executable directory were it is running from is where it
            will look for that Directory/file. If it cannot find rd.ini it Aborts.
	b)  The Library dll files and wxWidgets files MUST be in the executable direcotory
	    or the software will Abort (and will tell you it can't find things).  
            The files that need to be there are: the libmysql.dll, libcurl.dll,
	    msvcp120.dll, msvcr120.dll, and all the wxWidgets .dlls that were compiled
            when you build wxWidgets.  See the compile_audacity document for details.

  12) Our code makes some assumptions that you "May" want to change.  We do not allow users
      to create EVERGREEN carts in RDacity. We also enforce a start and end date on ALL
      CARTS/CUTS inserted/updated by the system. We also enforce specific rules in fields
      like Title (and other fields as well) to ensure that data integrity is consistent.  
      One example is: NO Title Column is allowed to start with a space.  Feel free to change
      any of these things as you see fit. 

  13) The Initialization Procedures check for the existence of a Rivendell Ini file
     (named rd.ini), and it should exist in the Portable Settings Directory off the 
     executable directory path.  There is an example of this file under the 
     win/Release/Portable Settings directory.  If it cannot find it (rd.ini) if will Abort.

Enjoy
